---
title: "Battle of the Defaults: Extracting Performance Characteristics of HDF5 under Production Load"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-05-hdf5-ccgrid21
excerpt: 'Bing Xie, Houjun Tang, Suren Byna, Jesse Hanley, Quincey Koziol, Tonglin Li, Sarp Oral'
date: 2021-05-20
venue: 'CCGrid'
paperurl: 'https://xiexbing.github.io/files/hdf5_ccgrid.pdf'
---
Popular  parallel  I/O  libraries,  such  as  HDF5,  pro-vide tuning parameters to obtain superior performance. However,the  selection  of  effective  parameters  on  production  systems  iscomplex  due  to  the  interdependence  of  I/O  software  and  filesystem  layers.  Hence,  application  developers  typically  use  thedefault parameters and often experience poor I/O performance.This   work   conducts   a   benchmarking-based   analysis   on   theHDF5  behaviors  with  a  wide  variety  of  I/O  patterns  to  extractperformance  characteristics  under  the  production  workload.  Tomake  the  analysis  well  controlled,  we  exercise  I/O  benchmarkson  POSIX-IO,  MPI-IO,  and  HDF5  using  the  same  I/O  patternsand  in  the  same  jobs.  To  address  high  performance  variabilityin  production  environments,  we  repeat  the  benchmarks  acrossI/O  patterns,  storage  devices,  and  time  intervals.  Based  on  theresults, we identified consistent HDF5 behaviors that appropriateconfigurations and operations on dataset layout and file-metadataplacement can improve performance significantly. We apply ourfindings  and  evaluate  the  tuned  I/O  library  on  two  supercom-puters:  Summit  and  Cori.  The  results  show  that  our  tunedparameters can achieve more than 10×I/O performance speedupthan  that  with  default  parameters  on  both  systems,  suggesting the effectiveness, stability, and generality of our solution.

[Full Paper](https://xiexbing.github.io/files/hdf5_ccgrid.pdf)
